---
layout: page
title: Deep Learning for Geospatial Uncertainty Modeling
---

# [NSF:  Deep Learning in Geospatial Uncertainty Modeling](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2026331&HistoricalAwards=false)

This NSF-funded project will contribute new statistical methods and tools
for the analysis of complex and incompatible geospatial data to advance
uncertainty-aware, data-driven geographic knowledge discovery. As
geospatial data become increasingly available, the complexity of geospatial
data marked by complex patterns and sources of uncertainty increases
dramatically, and goes well beyond the capabilities of conventional
methods. This project will develop an uncertainty framework to support
statistical learning of incompatible geospatial data for complex
spatiotemporal patterns. This framework will be used to characterize and
quantify the geospatial uncertainty in scientific modeling and practical
applications. This project will offer novel solutions to fundamental
analysis, modeling, and integration problems involving geospatial data, and
advance the understanding of the nature of geospatial uncertainty. This
project will enhance the proper and cost-effective utilization of
geospatial data, and will have broader impacts on disciplines that
geospatial data are involved. Furthermore, with a public outreach on
uncertainty-aware spatial thinking, this project will advance the public
good by increasing the public awareness of the geospatial uncertainty and
critical map reading and usage.


From a geostatistics perspective, this project will address the
long-standing unsolved challenges in spatial analysis dealing with complex
spatiotemporal patterns, heterogeneity and uncertainty of geospatial data.
First, the developed framework will provide a comprehensive and practical
approach to seamlessly integrate heterogeneous sources of geospatial data.
Secondly, capitalizing on recent advances in deep learning technologies,
the developed framework will characterize and model the complex
spatiotemporal patterns implied in heterogeneous data. Thirdly, the
developed framework will enable the characterization and modeling of
geospatial uncertainty and the impact assessment in domain fields. The
performances of the developed methods will be evaluated in two domain
applications: spatiotemporal disease mapping in public health and modeling
uncertainty of land cover changes and the impact on atmospheric models.

## Publication

Cao, G. (2022). “Deep Learning of Big Geospatial Data: Challenges and Opportunities”. In: New Thinking in GIScience, pp. 159-169.

Cao, G. and B. Buttenfield (2022). “Pattern Recognition and Matching”. In: The Geographic Information Science & Technology Body of Knowledge (2nd Quarter 2022 Edition).

Cao, G. and N. Zhao (2021). “Integrating Remote Sensing and Social Sensing to Examine Socioeconomic Dynamics: A Case Study of Twitter and Nighttime Light Imagery”. In: Urban Remote Sensing: Monitoring, Synthesis, and Modeling in the Urban Environment, pp. 131-150.

Neupane, J., W. Guo, G. Cao, F. Zhang, L. Slaughter, and S. Deb (2022). “Spatial patterns of soil microbial communities and implications for precision soil management at the field scale”. In: Precision Agriculture 23.3, pp. 1008-1026.

## Software

- Under development ...
