---
layout: page
title: Research
nav: research
---

<!--<div class="col-xs-12 col-md-12" markdown="1"> -->

# Research Interests

Our research is characterized by an interdisciplinary perspective on
**geographic information science** driven by the advances of artificial
intelligence, machine learning, earth observations (e.g., remote sensing
and social sensing) and computational science. We are particularly
interested in developing advanced quantitative methods (i.e., AI,
statistical and computational methods) and software tools to model and
communicate the complex spatiotemporal patterns buried in the sea of messy
geospatial data to support uncertainty-aware knowledge discovery and
decision making. We work closely with domain scientists to tackle the
challenges in environmental sciences, climate science, environmental
health, public health and social sciences. See below for the current and
completed projects.

<!--Particularly, we focus on the development of statistical and
computational methodologies for (a) integrating **heterogeneous sources of
geographic information** (e.g., incompatible scales) for geographic
analysis; (b) characterizing and modeling **complex spatiotemporal
patterns** in geographic phenomena and processes; (c) characterizing and
modeling **spatiotemporal bias and uncertainty** of geographic information
and the associated impacts; (d) addressing the **computing challenges**
when the data scale and model complexity increase dramatically; and (e)
building geospatial-enabled **cyberinfrastructure** for domain scientists.
-->


<!--</div> -->

<!--<div class="col-xs-12 col-md-12 resobj" markdown="1"> -->

## Current Projects 

+ NASA: Understanding the effects of agricultural land use transformations on weather dynamics in southern high plains (2025-2028), $740k, PI (with X. Song and R. Abolafia-Rosenzweig)

+ USDA: Modeling Spatiotemporal Distribution of Mormon Crickets with Geospatial Artificial Intelligence (2024-2025), $134k, PI (with R. Srygley)

+ CU Internal: Understanding Community Disaster Resilience with GeoAI and Big Geospatial Data (2023-2024), $25k, Sole PI

+ NSF: [ATD: Collaborative Research: A Geostatistical Framework for Spatiotemporal Extremes](../nsf-extreme) (2023-2026), $150k, PI 

+ USDA:  Geospatial Artificial Intelligence for Spatiotemporal Modeling of Pest Insects (2022-2023), $100k, PI 

+ CU Internal:  Understanding Social Dynamics with Location-Based Social Media (2022-2023), $15k, Sole PI

+ NSF:  [Deep Learning in Geospatial Uncertainty Modeling](../nsf-uncertainty) (2020-2024), $265,058, Sole PI

+ DOC NIST: [Innovative Measurement and Modeling of Dynamical Social and Health Effects of Windstorms](../nist-hazards) (2019-2022), $667,024, Co-PI (with PI: D. Liang)

+ USGS: Toward Near Real-time Monitoring and Characterization of Land Surface Change for the Conterminous US (2017-2022), $1,062,069, Co-I (with PI: Z. Zhu)


## Finished Projects 

+ CH Foundation: Mapping Local Community Preparedness to Tornado Hazards in Lubbock, Texas (2018-2019), $29,500, PI

+ CH Foundation: Immersive VR Experience for Teaching, Learning, and Researching (2018-2019), $17,989, Co-PI

+ Texas Tech: Story Maps of Humanitarian Projects around the World (2017-2018), $90,000, Co-PI (with PI: P. Solis)

+ USAID: Mappers Without Borders (2015-2020), $990,000, Co-PI (with PI: P. Solis)

+ USDA: Development of a GIS Model to Project and Map Future Water Availability (2015-2016), $119,895, Co-PI (with PI: K. Mulligan)

+ Texas Tech National Wind Institute: Toward a Geospatial Cyberinfrastructure for Enhancement of Community Resilience to Tornado Hazards (2014-2015), $30,500, PI 

+ Texas Tech Transdisciplinary Research Academy: A Big Data Approach for Spatial Environmental Epidemiology (2014-2015), $4,000, PI

+ USDA: Development of Current Hydrologic Data and Analysis of Water Availability in the Ogallala Aquifer over the Next 50 Years (2014-2016), $40, 679, Co-PI (with PI: K. Mulligan)

+ National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities Pilot Research Core: Center of Excellence at Meharry (HDRCOE): "Linking climate, air pollution and housing conditions to develop strategies to reduce racial disparities in infant mortality" (2014-2015), $12,729, Co-PI (with PI: L. Gittner)

<!--</div> -->
